We're on Course 9 talking
about the NTFS file system.
In this module, Module 6,
we're going to talk about
NTFS file recovery.
As we saw in our last module,
when we delete a file and NTFS,
the data will remain intact
until it is overwritten.
Its MFT file record
will also remain
intact until this is
reused by another file.
Data that is non-resident
remains until it is
overwritten by new a file.
If the data is resident,
it will remain until the
MFT file record is re-used.
How do we find these
unallocated files?
Well, we can search for file
records using the word file.
In a keyword search,
we could do a grep search using
a regular expression for
deleted file records as we
see up here on the screen,
that would be the expression.
We will be looking for
/x46/x49/x4C4.5, which is file.
Then we'd be going to an
offset  and looking for a
[/x00/x02] to either indicate
a deleted file or
deleted directory.
Our forensic tools are able to
search for deleted file records.
We could examine the recycle
bin if the file which
just set to the recycle bin
they're not permanently deleted.
We could use keyword searches
if we know the name of
the file or some data that
was contained in the file.
We can search for
the data using grep,
but we could carve for files
and using file headers
and then we'll talk about
that would cover file carbon.
But those are some
ways we can recover
deleted files in the
NTFS file system.
A. We're going to do
another walk-through.
The items you're going to
need for this walk-through,
we're going to need
active disk editor.
We're going to need our NTFS VHD,
and we're going to need our
regular expression documents.
The first thing we're going
to need to do for a module is
mount our NTFS VHD.
We're going to go
to disk management.
We're going to go to
Actions, attach VHD.
We're going to
navigate out to where
the VHD say they're not computer.
Mine is on my desktop.
We're going to
select the NTFS VHD.
We're going to click Open,
and then you're
going to say, okay.
Once you attach your VHD,
note the disk number
and the volume you're
going to be working with,
this the second volume in
our first NTFS volume.
It should be 200
megabytes in size and
the volume should
be labeled NTFS.
Once you've done that,
we're going to go ahead and
open up active disk editor.
Once active disk editor
opens, select open disk.
Now, we're going to select
volumes from a selection
bar on the top.
Then we're going to
select our disk.
My unmounted is B.
There is maybe a
different drive letter
and we're going to click Open,
and it's going to open up
to our volume boot record.
Now, let's go to
our browser file records
right underneath the
Edit next to Unicode.
We're going to look for
that file, deleteme.
TXT.
We see it is not here.
Now, we do know the sector,
but let's find it
without using that.
We're going to use
the find function.
Go to Find, and I want you to go
ahead and paste that
regular expression
in from your regular
expression document.
Highlight it, Right-click, Copy,
then Left-click here
and select Paste.
Once you've done that,
it should look like the
one up here on the screen.
You should have
/x46/x49/x4C/x45.
[/x00/x02].
Make sure you check the box
for use regular expression.
Then go ahead and
select, Find All.
This will take a minute to
run through as it goes.
It does go pretty quickly.
You can see and our
find results paint.
If this is not showing,
just go to View,
go to Windows and
make sure you have
the checkmark in find
results, this will show up.
Let's look at our results.
Well, it appears that
is not the file record
we're looking for.
That looks like it's a directory.
Still looks like a directory.
It's still a directory.
Here we are. We found
our file record.
Well, let's take a look at it.
We know it's an NTFS file record
because we have the ASCII file,
and we can see our sequence
number is still two.
The file is deleted.
Originally it was a 01
when we first created it,
and now it's a 02,
and we can see our flag is 00,
which indicate an unallocated
file, deleted file.
But, what's important too to
remember is our attributes
are still here.
We still have all our
dates and times created,
modified, record change,
last access time.
We still have our flags,
our file permissions.
We still have our filename
with the filename,
dates, and times.
We still have all our filename,
dates, and times down here.
We still know the
parent directory.
Now, this parent
directory may be deleted,
but we still do know where
the parent directory is.
It's MFT record number 5
and we can look at that.
You can see our record change,
and you see our allocated size,
our real size, and because it's
deleted you're
getting zeros here.
We can see the length
of the file name.
We can see the filename,
Delete Me.txt.
We can still see our object ID.
We still have our globally
unique identifier
in our data attribute.
We still have the data that
we wrote into our file.
That is one way to search
for deleted master
file table records.
Well, let's try another way.
Let's try and ask the file search
using the word delete me,
and see what we come up with.
We'll go ahead and click
on our ''Find window'' and we'll
remove all so we clear that up.
We'll go back to the
start of our MFT record.
Go ahead and click on ''Dollar
MFT'' just to bring
it back to the start.
We'll go back to our find.
Now, in NTFS, we use Unicode.
Click Restore Defaults on this,
but in NTFS we use Unicode.
Don't use ANS up here,
or you will not get a hit.
In Unicode, we're going
to write, Delete Me.
Now, icon space, you
may not have this.
The other thing we want
to check is Ignore Case.
We want to ignore case on this.
Most of the time unless you're
sure when you're doing a
keyword search like this,
you want to ignore case.
Then, I'm going to
select Find all.
We'll take a minute
to run through here.
Once it's finished, we'll
look in our Find Pane again.
Again, If you don't have this,
use the View button,
Windows, and make sure
you have the final
results checked.
Let's take a look at our results.
That doesn't look right.
No, no.
This one does.
Let's try putting our
template manager.
Yes, this is our NTFS file record
for the file to deleteme.txt.
We can see where it hit
in the dark yellow.
But, we needed to
search in Unicode.
Remember, NTFS writes
data in Unicode.
Very important to remember that.
We still have all the information
like we had before
when we looked at
it and we searched with
our regular expression.
This is one way we can
recover a file or two ways
you could recover a file in
NTFS by searching
for the file record.
We could use a
regular expression,
or if we did know the
name of the file,
we could use the
but just remember to
search in Unicode.